♪ [music] ♪
All right. Let's talk about Deployment.
How do I get this on the internet so
other people can actually go ahead and
start using it? Well, what we need to do
first is get a couple of things setup
before we can move into any of the
different ways that I could possibly
deploy in. Most of these ways that you
deploy is having a git-repo.
Even if it's not deploying via git,
having a git-repo is a great idea. So you
might already have a git-repo or you might
not. And if you have already
cloned this one from GitHub, then great.
You already have a git-repo.
We'll talk about that in just a second.
Don't skip this part because there's an
important part we're going to have here.
But if you don't, you do
getting it, and I made a new git-repo.
And then, we also want to make a gitignore
file. So we're going to right-click on our
project and make a new file
called, .gitignore. And inside
of your gitignore,
we're going to write some files
that need to be
ignored, both by git as well as some
of these other deployment things also use
your gitignore to tell it what not to
actually upload. So if you are coming from
an existing gitignore that you've cloned
from GitHub, it will look like this.
There you'll see something similar to
this, no modules, DS store,
log, idea, haters, variables and ENV,
and some of that stuff. So what
is this? Well, you don't want to put
your node modules up on GitHub, it's huge.
You can always get that by NPM
installing. DS store is just a Mac OS X
file. Log is a log file that something
might put onto your system that doesn't go
into it. Ideas for weird people that use
like WebStorm or something like that.
Haters, just don't have them. And
then we have our variables like ENV file.
Why? Because your variables like ENV file
should never, ever, ever go on any sort of
version control because what you get is,
it is specific to the system that you're
on. Then I also did this little trickery
to make sure that you could download a
hill-bunch of files by default.
But if you were to add upload files,
it would not go in there. Now, if we're
deploying, we actually need to get rid of
all of this here. So just
select all that, get rid of that. So,
if you do not have a gitignore, now
you do, and if you did have a gitignore,
it looks exactly like this.
One last thing, actually, we want to put
variables.env.now, and
I'll talk about that when we hit the
the now deployment
videos as well, but make sure
you add both of those. Good.
Then you can go over here and type
Git status, and there's going to be all
kinds of stuff. We don't have it hooked up
to GitHub or anything like that just yet.
That's fine. What we'll do is to git add
everything, git commit -m call up, and
then we are up and running as they get
status. You can double-check
that. Everything is good. All right.
So that's what we have now.
Next up what we need to do is to get,
sort of all of our variables in order. If
we open up our variables.env file,
we're going to need...and don't change
this one just yet because this is for your
local development. But you're
going to need a version of all of these.
That's going to be called Production. Your
database needs to be...either you can use
the existing database that you've had, if
that data is up, or if you have this as
like a test database and you also want a
production database. I recommend that you
go ahead and create a second database if
that's the case. So I'm going to be using
Mlab here just because I host all my
database with them. I'm really happy with
it but you can use any other service. Or
if you're wise enough to create your own
local database on your
server, then you can go ahead and do that.
I should caution you that if you are going
to create your own MongoDB database,
I know I've said this a few times but you
must set a username and password.
By default, MongoDB does not come with a
username and password and you'll get
hacked. Then you have a
mail user host port. I'm a big fan
of using something called Postmark.
And Postmark is all these services
that provide what
is called Transactional email
where they just send one email at a time
and you need a service to actually do
this. So Postmark have, I think they have
like 10,000 free, something like that,
or you signup you get a whole bunch of it
for free, and then it's just pennies to
send once past that. So there's
also like, SendGrid, MailGun, Mailbird,
I don't know. There's a whole
bunch of them. Postmark has been...
I've tried them all out and
I'm really happy with Postmark. Port,
you're going to want to change
that to 80 once we actually deploy it.
Again, we'll see that. Map key, go ahead
and get your own Google maps key if you
don't have one already. Otherwise, I don't
know, you could probably keep that one
until it stops working so we're going
to slash. We can leave those as it is.
So, don't, again, don't change any
variables in here but you just need to
know that you have to have all this stuff
ready before you go ahead and start
deploying unless you just want to get it
like up and running and you're not
actually worried about the mail.
Then you can leave it as your mail drop.
Finally, we need to make some changes to
our package .JSON that we have up and
running. So we have our pride, watch
start, assets, sample, blow it all away.
You saw another one called Node
down here, I've switched how that works.
So I've taken that out. But what most of
these things do is they actually run the
npm start command in order to actually
start it for us. And we were using the npm
start command to run concurrently
watch, as well as run this assets,
and we don't need to
either of those on our server.
We don't need
to watch it because we're not
actually actively developing it. We are
going to use something called Forever
though. And then we also don't need to
care about, assets because we're not
recompiling it. We don't use a compiler or
javascript or anything on this server.
So, what start should be renamed to is
called, dev. And now, let me just tell
you, if you ever want to just
run it now locally, it's not npm start,
it's npm run dev. And that's how you're
actually going to run your application
from here on out. So you see it just
kicked up and now is running for me.
I'm going to kill that. And
then, there's also this one called Pride,
I want you to rename that to start. Why?
Because that's how you actually start your
application normally without any of this,
like, run, watch, and assets and web pack
and everything. We just want to start
our application. It's just as simple as
calling node start.js. Okay, cool. So
we've done that and now let's get in to
moving some of the actual
different deployment scenarios.
♪ [music] ♪